# CHAPTER 1 Care About the Code

<p align="right">From caring comes courage.<br/>
— Lao Tzu</p>

It doesn’t take Sherlock Holmes to work out that good programmers write good code. Bad programmers… don’t. They produce elephantine monstrosities that the rest of us have to clean up. You want to write the good stuff, right? You want to be a good programmer.

Good code doesn’t pop out of thin air. It isn’t something that happens by luck when the planets align. To get good code you have to work at it. Hard. And you’ll only get good code if you actually care about good code.

> **KEY >** To write good code, you have to care about it. To become a better programmer you must invest time and effort.

Good programming is not born from mere technical competence. I’ve seen highly in‐
tellectual programmers who can produce intense and impressive algorithms, who know
their language standard by heart, but who write the most awful code. It’s painful to read,
painful to use, and painful to modify. I’ve seen more humble programmers who stick
to very simple code, but who write elegant and expressive programs that are a joy to
work with.
Based on my years of experience in the software factory, I’ve concluded that the real
difference between mediocre programmers and great programmers is this: attitude.
Good programming lies in taking a professional approach, and wanting to write the
best software you can, within the real-world constraints and pressures of the software
factory.
The code to hell is paved with good intentions. To be an excellent programmer you have
to rise above good intentions and actually care about the code—foster positive per‐
spectives and develop healthy attitudes. Great code is carefully crafted by master artisans, not thoughtlessly hacked out by sloppy programmers or erected mysteriously by
self-professed coding gurus.