You want to write good code. You want to be a good programmer. So, you care about
the code. This means you act accordingly; for example:
• In any coding situation, you refuse to hack something that only seems to work. You
strive to craft elegant code that is clearly correct (and has good tests to show that it
is correct).
• You write code that reveals intent (that other programmers can easily pick up and
understand), that is maintainable (that you, or other programmers, will be able to
easily modify in the future), and that is correct (you take all steps possible to de‐
termine that you have solved the problem, not just made it look like the program
works).
• You work well alongside other programmers. No programmer is an island. Few
programmers work alone; most work in a team of programmers, either in a com‐
pany environment or on an open source project. You consider other programmers,
and construct code that others can read. You want the team to write the best software
possible, rather than to make yourself look clever.
• Any time you touch a piece of code, you strive to leave it better than you found it
(better structured, better tested, and more understandable…).
• You care about code and about programming, so you are constantly learning new
languages, idioms, and techniques. But you only apply them when appropriate.
Fortunately, you’re reading this book because you do care about code. It interests you.
It’s your passion. You like doing it well. Read on, and we’ll see how to turn this code
concern into practical action.
As you do this, never forget to have fun programming. Enjoy cutting code to solve tricky
problems. Produce software that makes you proud.

> **KEY >** There is nothing wrong with an emotional response to code.Being proud of your great work, or disgusted at bad code, is healthy.

## Questions

1. Do you care about code? How does this manifest in the work you produce?
2. Do you want to improve as a programmer? What areas do you think you need to
work on the most?
3. If you don’t care about code, why are you reading this book?!
4. How accurate is the statement Good programmers write good code. Bad programmers… don’t? Is it possible for good programmers to write bad code? How?
