# Praise for Becoming a Better Programmer

Becoming a Better Programmer oozes experience and communicates the wisdom drawn from a career in the software business. Snappy, single-topic chapters make the book really readable with common themes being tackled from every angle. If you are a software engineer looking to go from good to great, this book is for you. I will be using it with the junior developers I’m responsible for mentoring.
<p align="right">— Andrew Burrows<br/>
lead developer</p>

Goodliffe takes the very broad subject of computer programming and manages to break it down into a clear, compelling, and engaging narrative. He has a particular flair for saying things that seem obvious, but I hadn’t realised before he said them. Any programmer who aspires to be a great programmer should read this book.
<p align="right">— Greg Law<br/>
cofounder and CEO of Undo Software</p>

Pete Goodliffe successfully blends the theoretical with the practical. Where things must be done in a particular way, he pulls no punches. Where grey areas exist, he clearly explains different points of view. If you consider and apply what he says you’ll benefit and be better; you’ll become a better programmer. Overall this book is full of distilled real-world experience, mixed with humor, to provide gentle wisdom.
<p align="right">— Dr. Andrew Bennett<br/>
BEng/PhD/MIET/MIEEE</p>

This book will fuel your passion for the art and science of programming. Pete understands that great software comes from good people doing their best work. He illustrates how to do this through good coding practices, a good attitude, and good relationships, with lots of examples. Bonus: it’s really fun to read!
<p align="right">— Lisa Crispin<br/>
coauthor of Agile Testing: A Practical Guide<br/>
for Testers and Agile Teams</p>

Pete’s got a wealth of experience being a programmer and mentor. In this book, he’s applied the same attention to detail categorising and describing those experiences as he does to the task of actually being a programmer. Knowing about programming is only one part of “being a programmer,” and whether you’re new to the Code Factory, an old hand, or starting to mentor someone, this is a treasure trove of advice about how to go about it—from someone who really knows. It’s a manual about many of the hurdles you’ll encounter, and how to negotiate them safely and effectively.
<p align="right">— Steve Love<br/>
editor of C Vu magazine</p>

All too often, programmers are divided into average programmers and rockstar or ninja developers. Where there’s a rockstar, there’s a trashed codebase with broken classes and spaced-out control flow. Where there’s a ninja, there’s mysterious bugs and build problems that appear in the middle of the night. Where there’s an average, there’s a distribution. In the longterm, what matters is less where on the distribution someone is than where they are headed. If you want to divide programmers into two groups, there are programmers who get better and programmers who don’t. You care about the first group. This book is for them.
<p align="right">— Kevlin Henney<br/>
consultant, speaker, and author of 97 Things Every<br/>
Programmer Should Know</p>

This book is quite dull, and I’m not convinced by the fish on the cover.
<p align="right">— Alice Goodliffe<br/>
age 12</p>
